The IC LM358 is configured as a comparator. The IC LM741 is not used since it is not specified to work 
with voltages lower than 4.5V. Pin#2 which is the inverting input of the IC is used as the sensing pin 
and is attached with a preset for the required adjustments and setting. Pin#3 which is the non-inverting 
input of the opamps is reference at 3V by clamping it with a 3V zener diode. A couple of LEDs can be 
seen wired across the output pin of the opamp, for detecting and indicating the charging condition of 
the circuit. Green LED indicates the battery is being charged while the red illuminates as soon as the 
battery is fully charged, and supply is cut off to the battery. Please remember that the charging process 
can be quite slow and may take many hours, because the current from USB of a computer is normally very 
low and may range between 200mA to 500mA depending on which number port is used for the purpose. Once the 
circuit is assembled and set up, the below shown design can be used for charging any spare Li-Ion Battery 
through the USB port. First connect the battery across the indicated points, and then plug in the USB con-
-nector with your computer's USB socket. The green LED should instant become ON indicating the battery is 
being charged. You can attach a voltmeter across the battery to monitor its charging, and check whether the 
circuit cuts off the supply correctly or not at the specified limit. 
1. First, make sure the preset is moved at the ground side fully. Meaning, the pin#2 should be at ground 
   level through the preset initially.
2. Next, without any battery connected, apply an exact 4.2 V across the +/- supply lines of the circuit, 
   through an accurate adjustable power supply.
3. You will see the green LED coming ON instantly.
4. Now, slowly rotate the preset, until the green LED just shuts OFF, and the RED LED switches ON.
5. That's all! The circuit is now all set to cut off at 4.2 V when the actual Li-Ion cell reaches this level.
6. For the final testing, connect a discharged battery to the shown position, plug-in the input power through 
   a computer USB socket, and have fun watching the cell getting charged and cut-off at the stipulated 4.2 V 
   threshold.
